
# hovor-execution-monitor

This repository contains the the logic of dialogue planner. It is deployed as a Flask python application with an SQLAlchemy database that is supposed to store solutiions generated by planner.

## 1. Running the app

### Local Run

Install the dependencies listed in the requirements.txt file to be able to run the app locally.

  ```
pip install -r requirements.txt
  ```
#### a. CLI (no API endpoints; only use for quick testing)
Run the following in the terminal. You can replace ``local_data/updated_gold_standard_bot`` with the path to any directory populated with valid [plan4dial](https://github.com/dialogue-planning/plan4dial) generated files.
  ```
python contingent_plan_executor/local_main.py local_data/updated_gold_standard_bot
  ```

#### b. With API endpoints
Run the following in the terminal. You can replace ``local_data/updated_gold_standard_bot`` with the path to any directory populated with valid [plan4dial](https://github.com/dialogue-planning/plan4dial) generated files.
  ```
python contingent_plan_executor/app.py local_data/updated_gold_standard_bot
  ```

### Docker Run (Recommended)

With Docker installed, run this command in the terminal to build the image:

docker build -t hovor:latest .

Once the image is built, you have two options for running the container:

#### a. In-Memory/Unmounted Run:
Use this version if you want to run a conversation that deletes once the container is
removed. (This is most ideal for testing).

``docker run -it --rm -p 5000:5000 -d hovor:latest local_data/updated_gold_standard_bot``

#### b. Persistent/Mounted Run:
Use this version to persist conversation data.  
``docker run -it --rm -p 5000:5000 -d -v convo_data:/data hovor:latest local_data/updated_gold_standard_bot``

## 2. Rundown of API Endpoints
Below are the various sub-endpoints and explanation of the services they provide along with necessary input/output to/from them. Note that for any endpoint, an unsuccessful call will have an "error" status, and you can view the "msg" to see what went wrong.

### /new-conversation
#### GET:
Begins a new conversation. Returns the agent's message(s) under "msg" and the user's id under "user_id". **Be sure to store the "user_id" so you can load your conversation later!**

#### POST:
##### parameters: 
- "user_id": the user_id that identifies your save slot
Begins a new conversation, but **overwrites the existing user save slot if it exists.** 
Returns the same as the **GET** request, but keeps the same "user_id".

### /new-message
#### POST:
##### parameters:
- "user_id": the user_id that identifies your save slot
- "msg": the message you want to send to the agent
Sends a message to the agent speaking to the given "user_id". Returns the agent's message(s) under "msg". Other diagnostic information like "confidence" is also returned.

### /load-conversation
#### POST:
##### parameters:
- "user_id": the user_id that identifies your save slot

Loads the conversation of the given "user_id" in its most recent save state. Returns the agent's message(s) under "msg". Call the **new-message** endpoint to continue the conversation.

View your app at : http://localhost:5000 

Send new messages with `curl`, i.e. :
  ```
curl -d '{"user_id":"haz", "msg":"I want to go to Toronto"}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST http://localhost:5000/new-message
  ```

# Deploying to our Embeddable Web Interface, WIDGET
Once you have a server running (local or otherwise) see [here](https://github.com/dialogue-planning/widget).

# Simulation and Evaluation
This allows for chatbot designers to simulate conversations, and analyze problematic ones. 


## Setup for Simulation and Evaluation
To run simulation and evaluation, some libraries will be needed in addition to the normal libraries for hovor. In my experience, the best way to do this is with conda to manage your environments, but the same package list should work for pip approaches. 

To create a working env with conda, follow these steps:
1. `conda create --name hovor-sim python=3.8.15`
2. `conda activate hovor-sim`
3. `conda install pip`
4. `pip install -r requirements_sim.txt`
5. `python -m spacy download en_core_web_md`

You can see the packages that will be installed the in the file `requirements_sim.txt`.  
If you have difficulties with package versions, you can view the text file `conda_list.txt` which contains the output of conda list for my working conda environment on ubuntu. You can likely specify these package versions in the requirements file to fix any conflicts.

## Run Simulation and Evaluation
The best way to apply simulation and evaluation, is to use our user interface. With your simulation environment activated, you will run the command: `streamlit run local_simulate_evaluate_streamlit.py` and once the paths are correct, it will run these processes. 
